              Module - 2: Node - NodeJS – Introduction


Q1. What is Node.js? Where can you use it?

  -Node.js is an open source server environment
  -Node.js is free
  -Node.js runs on various platforms (Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS X, etc.)
  -Node.js uses JavaScript on the server
  -Node.js is perfect for data-intensive applications as it uses an asynchronous, event-driven model.
You can use  I/O intensive web applications like video streaming sites.You can also use it for developing: Real-time web applications, 
Network applications, General-purpose applications, and Distributed systems.   


Q2. Explain callback in Node.js.


	-A callback function is called after a given task.
      -It allows other code to be run in the meantime and prevents any blocking. 
      -Being an asynchronous platform, Node.js heavily relies on callback.
      -All APIs of Node are written to support callbacks.


Q3. What are the advantages of using promises instead of callbacks?

	1.The control flow of asynchronous logic is more specified and structured.
	2.The coupling is low.
	3.We've built-in error handling.
	4.Improved readability.


Q4. What is NPM?

	-This is a packages manager used in the Node.js environment. 
	-As a rule this software is installed on the user's PC together with other parts of Node.js.
	-NPM stands for Node Package Manager, responsible for managing all the packages and modules for Node.js.

	Node Package Manager provides two main functionalities:

	1.Provides online repositories for node.js packages/modules, which are searchable on search.nodejs.org
	2.Provides command-line utility to install Node.js packages and also manages Node.js versions and dependencies  


Q5.What are the modules in Node.js?Explain

	-Modules are like JavaScript libraries that can be used in a Node.js application to include a set of functions. 
	To include a module in a Node.js application, use the require() function with the parentheses containing the module's name.

-Node.js has many modules to provide the basic functionality needed for a web application. Some of them include:

    Core Modules Name	 	                   Description 
        fs			 To handle the file system.
	http	            To make Node.js act as an HTTP server
	https	            To make Node.js act as an HTTPS server.
        os	             It provides information about the operation system.
	path			To handle file paths.
	cluster		To split a single Node process into multiple processes.
	dns			To do DNS lookups and name resolution functions.
	tls			To implement TLS and SSL protocols.
	querystring		To handle URL query strings.
	url			To parse URL strings.
	events			To handle events
	timers			To execute a function after a given number of milliseconds.


Q6.Create TODO app using FS module with yargs(command line arguments).
 

Installation:
	npm i yargs


	const yargs=require('yargs');
	const name=["vaibhav","mathukiya"];

	yargs.command({
		command:'add',
		describe:"Add a new name",
		builder:{
		          title:{
			describe:"this is the title arg",
			type:'string'
		}
	},
	handler:function(argv){
		name.push(argv.title);
		console.log(notes);
	}
});
console.log(yargs.argv);	

